[Ed]  Be with me Lord. in my hour of need.
Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness.
Nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.
Be with me Lord. in my hour of need.
Because thou hast made the Lord. which is my refuge.
even the most high. thy habitation.
[people] Be with me Lord. in my hour of need.
[Ed] There shall no evil befall thee.
neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.
[people] Be with me Lord. in my hour of need.
[Ed] For he shall give his angels charge over thee.
to keep thee in all thy ways.
[people] Be with me Lord. in my hour of need.
Let's take a little break. shall we?
Hon. are you feeling all right?
Yeah. I'm fine.
[sighs]
I just can't remember one quite like this.
He should try and get some sleep.
Yeah. Here you go.
-Oh. I'll take him. Mr. Glatzel. -Huh?
Yeah.
Thank you.
-Thank you. Arne. -No problem. Come on. buddy.
He can't take much more of this.
He won't have to.
Things will move quickly now that the exorcism's been approved.
Father Gordon's already on his way.
You're one brave kid. you know?
I was a little runt growing up.
so I know what it's like to be picked on.
But...
But that was nothing compared to what you're going through.
I don't feel very brave.
Being brave doesn't mean you're not scared.
It means you are scared but you hang in there.
It's gonna be all right.
I won't let anything happen to you.
I promise.
Arne. When are you gonna ask my sister to marry you?
[chuckles]
I don't know what you're talking about.
-Come on. -No. I don't. I...
-[knock on door] -[gasps]
[loud banging on door]
-[loud bang] -[door knob rattling]
[rattling stops]
[rustling softly]
[knife unsheathes]
[breath trembling]
[tap knobs squeaking]
No! Help me!
No. no. no! No. no. no!
[screaming]
-David! -[Judy] David! Where is he?
[glass breaking]
David!
[David screaming]
[breathing heavily]
[Carl] What's happening. buddy? Are you okay?
David. what's going on?
David?
[yelling]
[screaming]
[Carl] No!
Father. we need to do this. right now!
Okay. let's get him down to the car and we'll drive him to the church.
No. Father. Right now.
[David screaming]
[grunts] No! No! No!
[yells]
Grab his arms. don't let go.
[screaming]
Save your servant who trusts in you. my God.
Let him find in you. Lord.
a fortified tower in the face of the enemy.
Put on the full armor of God.
that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
Against the powers of the darkness of this world.
Against wickedness. [gasps]
-[groans] -Lorraine. what's wrong?
I'm fine.
Lorraine.
Lord! Send him aid from your Holy place
and watch over him from Sion.
-[sizzling] -[screaming]
Lord. heed my prayer.
Lord!
[distorted scream]
[screaming stops]
[rumbling]
[distorted laughter]
No. Father!
[Debbie shrieks]
[Lorraine] Father!
-Where's your first aid kit? -It's in the kitchen!
I'm on it!
Ed. hurry up!
Hurry. Ed!
Ed. Ed. Hurry!
[reciting in Latin]
[distorted laughter]
It's not working!
[continues reciting in Latin]
[bones cracking]
What? David. wait!
Stop it! What? What?
-[yells] -[screaming]
David! David! Help me. please!
What are you doing? David!
Help him. please!
David. stop it! David! David!
[screaming]
-Leave him alone! -Arne. don't talk to it.
I said. leave him alone. He's just a little boy. you coward!
No. Arne. don't talk to it!
[Debbie screams]
[distorted] I'll stop your heart. old man.
[gasping]
Ed!
[groans]
Hey!
Listen to me. Look at me.
[screams]
Look at me. I know you're still in there. David.
Just leave him alone. okay?
Leave him alone and take me.
Take me.
-[gasping] -Hey. take me. Take me!
David!
Leave him alone and take me!
[breathing heavily]
[gasps]
No.
No. no.
David. David. David!
David. are you okay? Hey. hey.
David. go with Mom.
Oh. oh!
Yes. David.
[gasping]
Ed? Ed! Hon!
What?
[groaning]
-Somebody call 911! -Okay.
Mrs. Warren.
He's stabilized.
We're gonna transfer him to the coronary unit.
-So. it was a heart attack? -Yes.
And not a minor one. I'm afraid.
-Can we see him now? -Not yet.
We're gonna to put a stent into his artery.
try to get blood flowing back to his heart.
[exhales]
So. is he gonna be all right?
We're gonna need to run a few more tests before I'm comfortable answering that.
I'm sorry.
-[Arne]  Leave him alone! -[Ed]  Arne. don't talk to it.
Leave him alone and take me.
Leave him alone!
[David screaming]
[machine whirring]
[whirring stops]
Hey. the mummy lives.
Hey. why did you let me sleep so late?
I didn't let you. I couldn't wake you.
-You couldn't wake me? -No. I couldn't.
Oh. that's strange.
You mustn't have been trying very hard.
[Debbie] No.
[dogs barking]
-[man] Buddy! Easy. easy. easy! -Okay. Bruno is right outside.
Oh. come on. Bruno's a worldly man. he doesn't care.
[laughs] No.
No. no. wait. Actually. I do want to ask you something.
Okay. What do you want to ask me?
Um...
-It's no big deal. -Mmm-hmm.
-I've... I've been thinking... -Mmm-hmm.
And now David's out of the woods.
maybe we should put all this behind us
and get out of this place.
-You know? -You mean. leave Brookfield?
Sure. why not? We've got nothing keeping us here now. Do we?
Oh. yeah. Nothing but my family
and all the money we don't have. Arne--
Okay. well. money's no big deal. right?
We're both working.
and this place doesn't cost us anything.
Arne. I just started this job. I can't just up and walk out now.
-[Bruno] Jesus Christ! -And besides.
Bruno doesn't know the first thing about taking care of these dogs.
Hey...
Let me think about it. Okay?
-You'll think about it? -Yeah. I'll think about it.
Okay. There we go.
Okay. get dressed.
I love you.
-[rock music playing] -I think David will love that.
-Did you call my mom? -[Arne] Yeah. I did.
-I told her we were going to be very late. -Okay. thank you.
No. Arne. Please stop eating. please stop.
Mrs. Haskett. so good to see you. thanks for coming by.
-Hey. we're headed out now. -Bye. Pookie.
I wrote down a list of stuff for you to do while we're gone.
Oh. keeping track of this stuff is what I'm supposed to be paying you for.
Not on weekends. you're not.
I'm letting you live here rent free.
That should buy me the weekends maybe the holidays. too.
Okay. Andy gets one cup. everyone else gets two.
Magic and Sparky are getting picked up. so you don't need to worry about them.
But. you'll have to take everyone else outside at some point this afternoon.
Oh. Ruby's allergic to bees. if she gets stung you've got to call the emergency vet.
I wrote the number down and stuck it on the fridge.
[song faltering]
Yo. Arne. you wanna make a quick five bucks. man?
My stereo's busted.
Yeah. sure. I'll take a look at it later. But. make it 15.
Ten.
-...what happened this morning. -I know.
Ma. okay. Please don't say anything.
I won't say anything. I promise.
Okay. just...
He asked if we could leave Brookfield.
-[gasps] You know what that means. don't you? -No.
-Actually. you mean he proposed? -Not exactly.
-Did you say. yes? -Not exactly.
Arne! Can you bring out the tray with the meat on it?
Oh. yes. I'm starving! Are you starving. bud?
Yeah.
Okay. I'll go get the meat.
-Ow! -[chuckles]
[rustling]
[squeaks]
[screaming]
[gasping]
[panting]
[woman on PA] Doctor Merrick. to OR-6.
Doctor Merrick. to OR-6.
[knocks on wood]
It was nice seeing Judy again.
Will she be staying long?
I don't know. um. it depends if...
The nurse says that you have been sleeping in that chair.
Ed would understand if you went home for a little while.
Did I ever tell you the story of how we met?
No. I don't think so.
Just that you were young. In high school. wasn't it?
Yeah. We were 17.
I went out with my girlfriends and...
And he was an usher at the movie theater that we went to.
Afterwards...
we went out for ice cream.
He took me out to the park. but then it started to rain.
And we stood under the gazebo until it stopped.
That was 30 years ago.
I could go back to the house. Father.
but my home is here with him.
[indistinct chatter]
[sputtering]
[buzzing]
Jesus Christ. Arne! What the hell?
[breathing heavily]
Can we please do something about this racket?
These dogs are driving me crazy!
[Debbie] They probably just smell a rabbit or something.
-How come you're not at work? -I wasn't feeling so hot.
[laughs] Arne! Perfect timing. man.
[dogs barking]
Hey. why don't you come inside with me. have a beer.
If we get that stereo fixed we can put up a sign. close up shop.
-You know what. I don't think so. Bruno. -Come on.
-Why. you quit drinking? -No. I just don't--
Tell you what. we can both quit next Saturday.
How about that? [laughs]
[weakly] Lorraine. Lorraine.
-Lorraine. -Daddy!
Oh. Ed. thank God.
Lorraine.
-You have to call the Glatzels. -She just called. you're fine--
We have to warn them. it's got the kid.
No. it's fine. it's over.
David is safe. the demon is gone.
Arne. It's got Arne!
[rock music playing]
It's beautiful. man. Nicely done!
Come on. man. don't make me drink alone.
Your girl's gonna think I'm a drunk.
Do you know...
that I saw these guys play in Sydney?
They nearly blew the roof off Her Majesty's Theater!
Bruno! Can you turn that down?
I'm testing out his work!
[volume increases]
[phone ringing]
[muffled music playing]
[breathing unsteadily]
Hey.
What's the matter? Are you okay? Bruno--
-Let's dance. brother! -Bruno! No. stop!
Bruno. Bruno! Oh. my Lord...
Okay. Bruno. go night-night.
-No! Not until we dance. -Yes! No. we're not dancing.
-One dance! One dance! -I don't want to dance! Bruno!
Okay. one dance.
[laughing]
[phone ringing]
-This is Officer Thomas. -My name is Lorraine Warren.
I know how this is going to sound.
but there's going to be a tragedy at the Brookfield Boarding Kennels.
[Debbie screaming]
Debbie!
[screams]
-Arne... -Bruno?
No. stop.
Arne!
Bruno. stop!
Arne. help me.
-[roars] -[screaming]
Arne. whoa. What is going on?
-What are you doing? -[Arne yelling]
Arne. please stop it!
[dogs barking]
Baby?
-[music continues playing] -What the hell?
[music stops]
[growling]
[yells]
[Arne grunting]
[Debbie] No. stop!
[sirens wails]
[indistinct radio chatter]
Hey.
You okay there?
You okay?
Now. you just stay right there. okay? Don't move.
I think I hurt someone.
This is Sergeant Thomas.
I have one victim down. multiple stab wounds.
[reporter] Residents of Brookfield were shocked this afternoon
by the broad daylight murder of Bruno Sauls.
Sauls. the manager of a local dog kennel.
was stabbed 22 times.
This is the first murder in that town's 193-year history.
[Arne]  Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord?
Or who shall stand in his holy place?
He that hath clean hands. and a pure heart.
who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity.
nor sworn deceitfully.
He shall receive the blessing from the Lord.
and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
[Ed] Right. That's enough.
Thank you.
Well?
These religious objects would've been enough
to provoke an inhuman spirit.
if there was one present.
Does that mean he's not possessed?
The fact that he can read from the Bible just seals it.
So. what does this mean. then...
I'm just crazy?
Well... you're not possessed.
But that doesn't mean that you weren't.
I... invited this thing into me.
and that's the reason that he's dead.
So. you know. whatever happens to me.
I've got it coming.
No. you don't.
Look...
I was there.
Whatever is going on...
whatever happened that day...
that was not Arne.
We're going to help you in every way that we can.
If the demon's gone. what can you do now?
Who's your lawyer?
He was found covered in the victim's blood.
The murder weapon belongs to him and it's got his fingerprints all over it.
Nobody's disputing any of that. Arne knows that he's going to prison.
All we're saying is that there were mitigating circumstances.
Mitigating circumstances?
Look. I don't think he should get the death sentence. either.
But I am not going before a grand jury
and saying he was possessed by demons.
It's never been done.
Yes it has! It's been done twice in England.
The Michael Taylor case was just a few years ago.
Let me rephrase that. It's never been done successfully.
Then let us help you.
Ed and I have proven the existence of the demonic hundreds of times.
You've proven it to the church. This is a court of law.
The standards of evidence are completely different.
The courts accepts the existence of God
every time a witness swears to tell the truth.
I think it's about time they accept the existence of the devil.
How are you going to convince a jury
if you can't even convince me?
I'll tell you what. You come over to our house for dinner.
We'll show you the evidence we've collected over the years.
Introduce you to Annabelle.
If you're not convinced. we'll butt out.
Deal?
All right. Show me what you got.
[gavel banging]
Mr. Johnson. to count one of indictment number S-A-J-1-2-1-6.
which charges you with first-degree murder.
a class-A felony.
how do you plead?
Your Honor. my client pleads not guilty
by reason of demonic possession.
[bell tolling]
This is ridiculous. I can walk down a flight of stairs.
Oh. hush. You shouldn't even be out of bed.
Lorraine.
I just talked to a friend of mine in the prosecutor's office.
He's gonna go for the death penalty.
I'll build the case. but that kid is gonna either live or die
depending on what you two find.
Well. we won't let him down.
[lawyer] I hope not.
Keep me posted.
So. what now?
We've never had to prove a possession after the fact.
Demons don't just disappear like this.
There's something else going on here.
something that we missed the first time.
Where do we start?
At the beginning.
[Ed on tape] It's July 18th. 1981.
This is Ed Warren. here with Lorraine...
and Judy Glatzel. Deborah Glatzel.
David Glatzel and Arne Johnson.
All right. let's get started.
Who was there when David first started exhibiting this behavior?
[Judy]  We all were. It was the day we moved in.
There you go. Go have fun with them.
-Wanna order some pizza? -[Debbie] Yeah sure. I'll do that right now.
-Hey. -[Arne] Put that box down a second.
-[Debbie] Why? -I just...
What are you doing?
-Have a look... -What is... Arne!
You know you're supposed to do this when you get married?
Okay. so maybe we'll do that too.
[Debbie] Oh.
[Debbie shrieks]
[hinges creaking]
[screaming]
No!
Mom!
[breath trembling]
[David]  I didn't know what happened.
It was like a dream.
And nobody believed me when I told them.
But that was the first time I saw it.
I don't get it.
How could he have invited a demon? He was only in here for a few minutes.
There wasn't even anything in here.
Where was the water bed?
Where that rug is.
The wood got damaged when the mattress ruptured.
-Mind if I have a look? -Please.
[gasps softly]
That's not water damage.
Hon. will you let me handle this?
You're going to ruin your dress if you go in there.
So. um. the guest room's about 15 feet in and to the right.
Okay.
-Just be careful. -Just hold my purse.
[rustling]
-[rat screeches] -[screams]
Lorraine! Are you all right?
Yeah. I'm fine. Ed. It's just a rat.
[sighs]
[rats squeaking]
[praying in Latin]
[Lorraine] It's a witch's totem.
used by Satanists in their rituals.
Remember how I told you that an inhuman spirit needs to be invited?
And you couldn't imagine how David could do that?
Well. you were right. he didn't.
We think David was cursed.
And on the night of the exorcism.
the curse was passed from David into Arne.
Cursed?
Are you saying someone did this to us... on purpose?
We've heard of satanic rituals like this.
The demon is summoned.
the possessed individual takes a life and the demon departs.
Which is why Arne was able to read from the Bible afterwards.
Yeah. We think whoever cursed David. used this to draw the demon.
And we'd like you to start mailing these out
to every police department you can find.
Start locally.
And. just find out if they've ever seen anything like this.
There might be someone else we can ask about this.
Do you remember the priest
who helped expose the Disciples of the Ram cult?
It would've been about 10 or 12 years ago--
-Father Kastner? -Yeah. you're right.
Only it isn't "Father" anymore. he's been retired for a while.
He tried to help those people.
He tried to understand why they did what they did.
If anyone is going to be able to tell us what this is. it's him.
[Ed] Father Kastner.
I didn't hear the car drive in.
Would either of you care for an omelet?
We had breakfast before we left home.
I'm Ed Warren. this is my wife Lorraine.
I have chicken shit on my hands.
[both chuckle]
[Lorraine] Thank you.
Forget you ever saw this.
You've seen it before?
No. But I've seen ones like it.
This is sophisticated. It's a very nasty piece of work.
What I don't understand is... is why?
David. the little boy who was possessed. he didn't do anything wrong.
Why would someone target this family?
Why?
The "why" is irrelevant.
The "why" is counter to everything that the Satanist stands for.
His sole aim is chaos.
His nectar is despair.
But someone had to put it under their house.
So. what does this tell you about the person who made it?
Come with me.
[keys jangling]
I don't want to go down there.
[door opens]
What is this?
It's the reason you're here.
[door creaks]
I collected these while I was studying the Disciples of the Ram.
-You should burn all this. -I've thought of it.
But I felt it was safer to keep them locked.
I like taking guns off the streets.
I don't suppose you have all these books organized
using the Dewey Decimal System. do you?
No. No. No. I do not.
The clues you seek could be anywhere. Or. they...
Or. they may not be here at all.
Ed. don't.
[Kastner] I studied these people for nine years.
They worshipped Satan and his demons with blood sacrifice.
They defiled holy land with their obscene rituals.
and they committed acts of blasphemy... which I shall never speak of.
But... these acts gave them power.
The trial of the Disciples.
the lead prosecutor. his wife was pregnant.
A few days after the Disciples were all found guilty.
his baby was born six weeks early.
with its heart outside of its body.
Three months later. his wife committed suicide
by laying her neck on a railroad track.
A master Satanist is not an adversary to be taken lightly.
We know the dangers. better than you might think.
This boy. who's headed to the death chamber...
is saving him worth everything you have?
Because that's what it may very well cost.
[water dripping]
[clattering]
[mic feedback]
So. you gonna clean it up. or what?
I'm sorry.
[loud thud]
[gasping]
What?
♪ Color me your color. darling ♪
♪ I know who you are ♪
♪ Come up off your color chart ♪
♪ I know where you're coming from ♪
[chuckles softly]
♪ I know who you are ♪
[screaming]
[indistinct shouting]
It was here! I swear to God. it was here!
[footsteps approaching]
Look what the Perron family sent.
Oh. that was sweet of them.
[phone ringing]
-I got it. -Ed. let me.
It's okay. it's okay. it's okay.
-Hello? -  [Drew]  Ed?
We've got a bite.
I just got off the phone with a homicide detective in Danvers.
he wants to talk to you guys. He says he says he's seen it.
[door closes]
Katie Lincoln and Jessica Strong went missing about four months ago.
They were best friends in high school.
Katie's body was found near here. stabbed 22 times.
We still haven't found Jessica.
But when we searched her home back in May...
we found this.
So. you're the experts.
What can you tell me about this?
Well. to be honest. not much.
Only that if this totem works the same way as the one in Brookfield.
it's possible that your missing girl was possessed.
Look. I've read all about what you two think happened in Brookfield.
But I'm only interested in leads that are grounded in reality.
Good. So are we.
We were actually hoping there might be something in this case file
that might help prove Arne's story.
No. no. no. I brought you here to help me.
not the other way around.
Now. we've been looking for a link to some sort of
satanic cult ever since we found that thing.
And these devil-worshippers. they're just people.
Crazy. evil people. but. people.
Maybe we can help each other.
We need to see your casefile...
and you need to find the missing girl.
So. give us a chance.
-To do what exactly? -To find Jessica.
We've been combing through these forests for over three months now. Mrs. Warren.
I can see things that your people can't.
[sighs]
One of these is the knife used on Katie Lincoln.
The others I just pulled from the evidence locker.
And what? You want her to pick out the murder weapon?
Mmm-hmm.
I'll take you out there. but first I want to see what she can do.
Absolutely not! My wife's gift is not a sideshow attraction.
If she is what you say she is. then this shouldn't be a problem.
Mr. Warren. Right?
-No way! Forget it. We-- -It's this one.
["Suspicious Minds" playing]
♪ We're caught in a trap ♪
♪ I can't walk out... ♪
It was a one-in-three chance.
[chuckles softly]
This song's appropriate.
♪ Because I love you too much. baby ♪
You know. I actually met Elvis once.
-Oh. yeah? -Mmm-hmm.
-Was that before or after he died? -Before...
and after.
♪ When you don't believe a word I say? ♪
You missed a turn.
The spot where you found Katie's body. it was back that way.
♪ And we can't build our dreams ♪
♪ On suspicious minds ♪
[Debbie]  They're in Danvers. right now.
If they can find some way to
connect what happened there to what happened to you. then...
You know. it's... It's a pattern.
They might even find out who did this.
Okay. Well. that sounds great. right?
-It's great. -Baby...
What's going on?
Nothing.
I'm fine. I'm tired. you know--
Come on.
You're keeping something from me.
Don't you think I can tell that?
Look. I'm fine. Totally fine.
It's cold in here.
Yeah. right?
It's like. they're trying to freeze us out. or something.
I remember what it felt like.
You're always cold. and you're never alone.
David. what are you talking about?
That's why you can't sleep. Because it's never quiet in your head.
Sometimes you think something.
then you're not sure if it was really you.
But now you're seeing it.
It's here with you. And it's telling you to do things.
Arne. what is it telling you to do?
You sure you should be tromping through the woods like this?
Yeah. I'm fine.
Then what are you worried about?
Afraid she won't be able to do it?
[Ed] No.
I'm afraid that she will.
Ed. something terrible happened here.
[branches creaking]
-[rustling] -[gasps]
[wood scraping]
[both laughing]
[Jessica] Katie. wait up.
Hey.
I got you something.
They were selling them at the May Festival this year.
Your parents still dragging you up there for that?
Every year. since I was six.
[both chuckle]
It's dumb. but. I thought this was cool.
It reminded me of the ones we made in high school.
Will you help me put it on?
Sure.
[panting]
[gasping]
[sobbing]
All right. that's enough.
Hon. that's enough. That's enough! Come on!
[breathing heavily]
Katie? Katie? Oh. my God. What did I do?
Hon. no!
Lorraine!
[sobbing]
[panting]
[Ed] Lorraine!
Lorraine.
Ed.
[screaming]
No!
[grunting]
[both sigh]
It's okay. I got you. I got you.
[Lorraine panting]
She's down there. Ed. she's down there.
[siren wailing]
[paramedic]  Blood pressure's a little high.
I'm gonna give you a vasodilator.
It's a pill. you're gonna put it under your tongue.
It'll open up your blood vessels.
Yeah. I have those.
I left them at home.
[paramedic] Yeah. well. I wouldn't do that anymore if I were you.
Mind giving us a minute?
Recovery team found a body.
-Is it-- -We're not sure.
Look. I know what it looks like.
But. I don't want any of this getting out until we have a positive ID
from the coroner.
You know. we dragged this basin. Twice.
Had to pull teeth to get it done a third time.
We never would've done it if it weren't for you.
I'm just glad we could help.
Let me know where you're staying.
And I'll get that casefile to you in the morning.
[phone ringing]
Hello?
Oh. my God. I've been leaving messages all day.
-What's wrong? -It's Arne. It followed him!
You said this was over.
but now he's trapped in there with this thing and it's telling him
-  to kill himself! -  Debbie.
Just calm down and listen to me. I need you to call the prison chaplain. um...
-Father Newman. -Father Newman. Tell him that
Arne needs to be put on a 24-hour suicide watch! He's got--
[static screech]
What? Hello?
What is this thing?
[thunderclap]
[thunder rumbling]
[keys jangling]
[lock clicking]
[man] Arne.
God gives everyone the right to defend themselves.
[lock clicks]
[Lorraine] This demon...
it's not here of its own free will. It was summoned.
That doesn't make me feel any better.
That means. we know that this is a curse.
and curses can be broken.
All right. Then. how do we do that?
Back at the Glatzel house.
I touched David's hand and I saw something.
I didn't know what it was then.
But I think that I was connected to the person who is responsible for this.
Ed. that body they found...
if it's Jessica. if it's really her.
then that connection could still be open.
There's gotta be another way.
[gasping]
Okay... okay.
Okay.
The Lord is my shepherd.
there is nothing I shall want.
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures...
[knock on door]
[rattling]
There's nobody there.
We'll leave a note.
[door creaking]
[door closes]
[switch ticking]
Oh. boy.
Please be careful.
[whimpers]
[exhales]
Do you see anything?
No. There's nothing.
There's nothing here.
I'm not sensing it.
-Lorraine. what is it? -The connection.
It's here.
[train horn blowing]
[train engine chugging]
[Ed]  Do you see anything?
Yes.
Yes. there are... some stairs.
I heard a train.
But now...
there's an altar.
All those black candles.
There's 12 of them. In a circle.
Oh. Ed.
Okay. that's enough. come back.
I can't.
Lorraine.
[switch ticking]
It's a woman.
[Ed]  Can you see her?
[Lorraine]  I am her.
Can you tell where she is?
I don't know. I...
[exhales]
She's doing it again.
She's reaching out to Arne.
She's trying to complete the curse.
[gasps]
Oh. she has him. She has Arne.
Oh. no. no.
No. no. Oh. God.
End this black sabbath.
By the blood of Calvary I command it!
I got a cutter! C-19!
Come on. kid.
[wind blowing]
How are you doing this?
God has shown you to me.
Then your God has damned you.
Ed. The connection works both ways.
[ticking stops]
[switch ticking]
Lorraine.
You need to come back.
-Lorr-- -[bones cracking]
Lorraine?
You need to break the connection.
Drop her hand.
Lorraine. let go of her hand.
[gasps]
[growls]
[Lorraine gasps]
[both breathing heavily]
Ed...
She knows who we are.
[thunder rumbling]
[sighs in relief]
[Lorraine] We are so sorry.
[crying]
Oh. we're so sorry.
How's Arne?
He'll be all right. They got him sedated.
We got the casefile.
There's got to be something here that connects these girls back to him.
That's great.
I got something to show you. too.
I found it in the Stregheria. It's early Renaissance.
The Church used it to identify and persecute witchcraft.
Now...
my Latin is rusty. but... I think this...
is talking about a human sacrifice.
One by murder and the other by suicide.
Does it say how to stop it?
Yeah. it looks like...
you can break the curse by destroying the altar it was cast from.
But...
this part looks like Aramaic.
This next part. I can't read it.
But you stopped her. Maybe she'll give up now.
She can't.
Once started. the curse must be completed.
Her soul depends on it.
We'll find another way.
Was there anything in your vision
that might help us find her altar?
It was cold.
There was water dripping from the ceiling.
I think I heard a train.
But it sounded strange somehow. Like. um...
I don't know. muffled?
Well. maybe it was underground.
Could be. I don't know where.
This woman targeted David and Jessica.
Maybe there's a connection there.
Let me take a look at the...
Take a look at the...
file.
[thunder rumbling]
[groans softy]
Lorraine?
[leaves rustling]
Lorraine!
[breathing heavily]
[indistinct clatter]
Where is she?
You know. the two of you have gathered quite the collection.
If you hurt her...
Oh. don't worry. Mr. Warren.
You're so close.
I'd hate for you to give up now.
[loud thud]
[thudding]
[door creaking]
[growls]
-[roars] -He who calls forth the water of the sea!
The Lord of Hosts is His name!
Deliver Thy servant
from all the workings of unclean spirits!
Fear and flee. unclean spirit!
-Ed! -[breathing heavily]
Ed.
I'm sorry.
Ed. it was her!
It was her.
-[Drew] Ed. what the hell is going on? -Help me find it!
Find what?
[Ed] Where is it?
[Drew] Ed.
Ed!
She was here! She was in our house!
When did these get here?
They just arrived yesterday
while you guys were driving home.
They were fresh when they got here.
[gasps]
[sighs]
[Lorraine] We have to find this woman.
We've identified the curse
and now we have Jessica's casefile.
There has to be something in here.
Okay. I'm gonna take the book to be translated.
There has to be a clue about where we can find the altar.
[Debbie] So what do we do?
You should go be with Arne.
He's gonna need you tonight more than ever.
Ask Father Newman for help.
Drew. you and me are gonna tear into those files.
We've got to find a link between these cases.
And a Satanist's power is strongest at night. So...
Let's hope she doesn't try anything before then.
They've stopped his sedation.
He'll be coming around soon.
[Drew] There's nothing in these interviews.
Her friends barely saw her after she got back from college.
Didn't that seem strange to you?
I mean. we're here.
the Glatzels live here. just 15 minutes away.
But Jessica lived 180 miles from here.
Why is this one so far away?
Hey. where did Jessica find her totem?
I just saw something about that.
It was in an interview with her parents.
It was in a box.
"She brought it back home in a box from college."
Where'd she go to college?
Fairfield.
This woman lives in the area.
Still a lot of ground to cover.
Yeah. but not a lot of train tracks.
Remember Lorraine's vision? She said she heard a train.
What time was it?
Maybe we can start eliminating some of these.
[Ed] Probably close to midnight.
[Drew] Then it can't be either of these two.
The commuter lines don't run that late.
That just leaves this freight line
that crosses the river here.
The river.
Oh. dear God.
Mrs. Warren.
I'm sorry. Father. we tried calling.
but we couldn't reach you.
We were hoping you'd help us translate a passage from this book.
Of course. Come in.
Thank you.
Give me your keys. You stay here. call the police.
[Drew] What do you want me to tell them?
Anything. just get 'em out there!
[door shuts]
[Kastner] It's the curse.
It says. the curse needs three victims to be complete.
It refers to them as...
"The child. the lover and the man of God."
The embodiment of God's work.
Purity. love. faith.
Has there been another?
It's Ed. It's my husband.
Last night we found a totem in his office.
That is unfortunate.
Here. come with me.
There's something I need to show you.
[floorboard creaking]
Father?
I've been here many years...
starting when I was a priest.
The church used this mill for storage.
It's where they put the things that they were afraid of.
Things they didn't understand.
You had a child?
Her mother died in childbirth.
The Church couldn't know.
So I raised her here. in secret.
It was just the two of us.
Our happiness filled this house.
I continued my studies into the occult.
I wanted to protect her from all this.
Instead I created a fascination.
We must be careful
how our obsessions are passed to our children.
"He who dwells in the shelter of the most high
will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.
I will say of the Lord.
'He is my refuge and my fortress.
my God. in whom I trust.'"
It's just the wiring.
You know. state building.
[Arne] Debbie.
Arne.
What is it?
She's... she's close.
You knew?
We came to you for help and you knew this whole time?
She's my daughter.
I couldn't...
I didn't want to see.
After all these years.
I thought she'd come back to me again.
And now I know the real reason she's here.
There are tunnels under this land.
She would explore them as a child.
Her altar must be down there.
It's the only thing that can break her curse.
We need to destroy it.
[door creaking]
She's here.
[Kastner] Go.
I failed as a priest.
And I failed as a father.
Please. God. don't let me fail--
[breathing heavily]
[grunts]
[footsteps approaching]
[Ed] Lorraine!
Lorraine!
[Lorraine in the distance] Ed!
Ed?
Ed!
Lorraine!
[grunts]
[grunting]
[Lorraine] Ed!
[screams]
[panting]
[breathing heavily]
[screams]
[Lorraine shrieks]
[grunting]
Look at me.
Open your eyes.
[shushing softly]
Look at me.
[whimpering] No!
Open your eyes and look at me.
Open up.
-[Lorraine screams] -[grunts]
Lorraine!
Lorraine?
Ed!
[groaning]
[coughing]
Ed?
-[Ed grunting] -[crashing]
[grunting]
[Arne screaming]
-It's happening. -Now?
Now.
[praying in Latin]
[grunts]
-[Ed grunts] -Ed. stop!
[shouts] Stop! Ed. I'm begging you!
[Ed grunts]
Ed! Stop!
-[screams] -[glass shattering]
[siren wailing]
[Arne screaming]
[bones cracking]
Arne!
Arne. please. It's okay.
Our Father who art in heaven
-hallowed be thy name... -No. Arne. It's okay! Please!
...thy kingdom come. thy will be done
-on earth as it is in heaven. -Arne. it's okay!
[Lorraine] Stop this! Ed. I'm begging you!
I'm begging you. remember me!
[breathing heavily] Stop!
[gasping]
[grunts]
Ed. stop! [screams]
[Lorraine whispers]  Ed. please.
Remember me.
Oh. my God! Guards!
...and lead us not into temptation
but deliver us from evil.
-For thine is the kingdom... -Arne. it's okay.
-...the power and the glory... -[roars inhumanly]
...now and forever. amen!
Our Father. who art in heaven. hallowed by thy name.
thy kingdom come. thy will be done
-on earth as it is in heaven. -No. Arne!
Arne? Arne. what are you doing?
[Father Newman continues praying]
What are you doing? Stop it!
What are you doing? Father Newman. help him!
Please... Guards!
Please! Stop it!
Please help him!
[Lorraine] You're not gonna do this!
This is wrong and you know it!
[grunts]
Father Newman... No. no.
What's happening?
Please. Father. make it stop!
[screams]
Our Father. who art in heaven. hallowed be thy name.
thy kingdom come...
No. no. no! Arne. no!
Arne. stop. please! Stop it!
Don't do this. Arne. I love you!
No...
And lead us not into temptation.
but deliver us from evil!
[Lorraine panting]
-[grunts] -[screams]
[panting]
Ed... Remember me.
She tried to turn you against me.
Because. she thinks our love is our weakness.
But it's not.
It's not.
It's our strength.
Now. open your eyes.
Arne? Arne. are you okay?
Oh. my God! [cries]
Oh. my God.
[Ed grunts. pants]
Your curse is broken.
[bones cracking]
[groaning]
You promised a demon a soul.
-[grunts] -[bones cracking]
And it can't go back to hell without one.
Oh. my God.
It's okay. It's over.
Please say it's over...
[Ed grunting]
Hon... I...
I forgot my pills.
[breathing heavily]
[siren wailing]
["Brand New Day" by Van Morrison playing]
♪ When all the dark clouds Roll away ♪
♪ And the sun begins to shine ♪
[indistinct chatter]
♪ I see my freedom From across the way... ♪
[Debbie] Arne?
Arne?
Excuse me. Arne!
I love you.
♪ And it gives so much light ♪
♪ And it comes From the sky above ♪
♪ Make me feel so free ♪
♪ Make me feel like me ♪
♪ And lights my life with love ♪
♪ And it seems like ♪
♪ Yes. it feels like... ♪
[bailiff] Will the defendant please rise?
♪ And it seems like ♪
♪ Oh. yes. it feels like ♪
♪ A brand new day ♪
♪ A brand new day. yeah ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
[Lorraine] Oh.
♪ And the sun shines down All on the ground ♪
♪ Yeah and the grass Is so green ♪
♪ And my heart is still And I've got the will ♪
♪ And I don't really feel so mean ♪
♪ Here it comes Here it comes ♪
♪ Here it comes right now ♪
♪ And it comes Right in on time ♪
♪ Well. it eases me... ♪
As we go back now. listen to the tapes
as well as being there and hearing him do it.
he would constantly challenge what was in that boy.
What does that do
-to the whole system of law... -[man] Yes.
...if a person can walk in and say.
"The devil made me do it"?
[Lorraine]  David. I'm going to put this on you.
[Ed]  In the name of Jesus. Jesus repels you.
Leave this child alone.
It's on your forehead.
Yes. remember. you are not strong. you're weak.
You're weak.
Jesus loves this boy. This is... this is His child.
[Judy]  Wake him out of it. Prop him up. Do something!
[Debbie]  He won't get out of it right now. Ma.
[Judy]  Well he called me names. you didn't do nothing now!
[Debbie]  Well. what do you think we've been doing all this time?
[Ed]  In the name of the Father and the Son
and the Holy Spirit. amen!
[Arne]  You gotta hold him down. He told me to.
Hold him on the ground.
[Judy]  Mommy's here. Mommy's here.
Come on. wake up.
Come on. Get up. Come on. let's go.
Get out. Get out of my son.
Get out of my son. Come on.
Come on. son. Come on. Get out. Get away from my son.
[David]  Go on! No!
[Judy]  I'm your mother!
[David]  No. you're... [laughs evilly]
[Judy]  David. David. Wake up!
[Ed]  Let the boy go.
[Lorraine]  Look. you need to hold him.
[Ed]  In the name of the Father
and the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
[Judy]  Do something. Sit him up.
-  [Debbie]  It won't work. -  [Arne]  You can't sit him up. he's...
[Debbie]  It won't work.
[David]  Mom. you're dead! [laughs evilly]
[Judy]  David! Please. get up!
My God. get up!